(c) Sanctions Described.--
            (1) In general.--The sanctions described in this subsection 
        are the following:
                    (A) Blocking of property.--The President shall 
                exercise all of the powers granted to the President 
                under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
                (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent necessary to 
                block and prohibit all transactions in property and 
                interests in property of the person if such property 
                and interests in property are in the United States, 
                come within the United States, or are or come within 
                the possession or control of a United States person.
                    (B) Aliens ineligible for visas, admission, or 
                parole.--
                            (i) Visas, admission, or parole.--An alien 
                        who the Secretary of State or the Secretary of 
                        Homeland Security (or a designee of one of such 
                        Secretaries) knows, or has reason to believe, 
                        is described in subsection (a) is--
                                    (I) inadmissible to the United 
                                States;
                                    (II) ineligible to receive a visa 
                                or other documentation to enter the 
                                United States; and
                                    (III) otherwise ineligible to be 
                                admitted or paroled into the United 
                                States or to receive any other benefit 
                                under the Immigration and Nationality 
                                Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
                            (ii) Current visas revoked.--
                                    (I) In general.--The issuing 
                                consular officer, the Secretary of 
                                State, or the Secretary of Homeland 
                                Security (or a designee of one of such 
                                Secretaries) shall, in accordance with 
                                section 221(i) of the Immigration and 
                                Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1201(i)), 
                                revoke any visa or other entry 
                                documentation issued to an alien 
                                described in clause (i) regardless of 
                                when the visa or other entry 
                                documentation is issued.
                                    (II) Effect of revocation.--A 
                                revocation under subclause (I) shall 
                                take effect immediately and shall 
                                automatically cancel any other valid 
                                visa or entry documentation that is in 
                                the alien's possession.
            (2) Exceptions.--
                    (A) United nations headquarters agreement.--The 
                sanctions described in paragraph (1)(B) shall not apply 
                with respect to an alien if admitting or paroling the 
                alien into the United States is necessary to permit the 
                United States to comply with the Agreement regarding 
                the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake 
                Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 
                21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United 
                States, or other applicable international obligations.
                    (B) Exception for intelligence, law enforcement, 
                and national security activities.--Sanctions under 
                paragraph (1) shall not apply to any authorized 
                intelligence, law enforcement, or national security 
                activities of the United States.