SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Hong Kong National Security Law promulgated on July 
        1, 2020--
                    (A) contravenes the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
                Special Administrative Region that provides in Article 
                23 that the Legislative Council of Hong Kong shall 
                enact legislation related to national security;
                    (B) violates the People's Republic of China's 
                commitments under international law, as defined by the 
                Joint Declaration; and
                    (C) causes severe and irreparable damage to the 
                ``one country, two systems'' principle and further 
                erodes global confidence in the People's Republic of 
                China's commitment to international law.
            (2) Repression of ethnic Muslim minorities in the Xinjiang 
        Uyghur Autonomous Region of the People's Republic of China has 
        been ongoing, and was formalized with the ``Strike Hard 
        Campaign against Violent Terrorism'' that began in 2014.
            (3) The mass internment of Uyghur and other Muslim ethnic 
        minorities in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region has been 
        ongoing since April 2017.
            (4) The People's Republic of China has conducted a targeted 
        and systemic population-control campaign against ethnic and 
        religious minorities in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 
        by imposing and implementing coercive population-control 
        practices, including selectively enforcing birth quotas, 
        targeting minority women who are in noncompliance with birth 
        quotas, and subjecting women to coercive measures such as 
        forced birth control, forced sterilization, and forced 
        abortion.
            (5) On October 6, 2020, 39 countries delivered a cross-
        regional joint statement to the United States Mission to the 
        United Nations on the human rights abuses on Uyghurs and other 
        minorities for forced birth control including sterilization.
            (6) On January 19, 2021, the Department of State determined 
        that the People's Republic of China committed crimes against 
        humanity and genocide against Uyghurs and other ethnic and 
        religious minority groups in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous 
        Region, citing forced sterilizations, forced abortions, coerced 
        marriages, and separation of Uyghur children from their 
        families.
            (7) The Department of State's 2020 Country Reports on Human 
        Rights Practices affirmed the genocide determination and noted 
        coercive population control measures inflicted on ethnic and 
        religious minority women in China, including forced injections 
        with ``drugs that cause temporary or permanent end to their 
        menstrual cycles and fertility''.
            (8) The United States ratified the United Nations 
        Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide in 
        1988, recognizing that ``imposing measures intended to prevent 
        births within the group'' with intent to destroy a group in 
        whole or part is an act that constitutes genocide.
            (9) Taiwan is a free and prosperous democracy of nearly 
        24,000,000 people and an important contributor to peace and 
        stability around the world.
            (10) Section 2(b) of the Taiwan Relations Act (Public Law 
        96-8; 22 U.S.C. 3301(b)) states that it is the policy of the 
        United States--
                    (A) ``to preserve and promote extensive, close, and 
                friendly commercial, cultural, and other relations 
                between the people of the United States and the people 
                on Taiwan, as well as the people on the China mainland 
                and all other peoples of the Western Pacific area'';
                    (B) ``to declare that peace and stability in the 
                area are in the political, security, and economic 
                interests of the United States, and are matters of 
                international concern'';
                    (C) ``to make clear that the United States decision 
                to establish diplomatic relations with the People's 
                Republic of China rests upon the expectation that the 
                future of Taiwan will be determined by peaceful 
                means'';
                    (D) ``to consider any effort to determine the 
                future of Taiwan by other than peaceful means, 
                including by boycotts or embargoes, a threat to the 
                peace and security of the Western Pacific area and of 
                grave concern to the United States'';
                    (E) ``to provide Taiwan with arms of a defensive 
                character''; and
                    (F) ``to maintain the capacity of the United States 
                to resist any resort to force or other forms of 
                coercion that would jeopardize the security, or the 
                social or economic system, of the people on Taiwan''.
            (11) Since the election of President Tsai Ing-wen as 
        President of Taiwan in 2016, the Government of the People's 
        Republic of China has intensified its efforts to pressure 
        Taiwan through diplomatic isolation and military provocations.
            (12) The rapid modernization of the People's Liberation 
        Army and recent military maneuvers in and around the Taiwan 
        Strait illustrate a clear threat to Taiwan's security.