[Congressional Bills 119th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 294 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 294

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         April 8, 2025.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 18) disapproving the rule 
submitted by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection relating to ``Overdraft 
Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''. All points of order against 
consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the joint 
resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Financial Services 
or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to commit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 28) disapproving the rule submitted 
by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection relating to ``Defining Larger 
Participants of a Market for General-Use Digital Consumer Payment 
Applications''. All points of order against consideration of the joint 
resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on 
any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) 
one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Financial Services or their respective 
designees; and (2) one motion to commit.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 1526) to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
limit the authority of district courts to provide injunctive relief, and for 
other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee 
on the Judiciary now printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The 
bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment 
thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on the Judiciary or their respective designees; and (2) one 
motion to recommit.
    Sec. 4.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 22) to amend the National Voter Registration Act of 
1993 to require proof of United States citizenship to register an individual to 
vote in elections for Federal office, and for other purposes. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered 
as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any 
amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one 
hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on House Administration or their respective designees; 
and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 5.  House Resolution 293 is hereby adopted.
    Sec. 6.  House Resolution 164 is laid on the table.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.