[Congressional Bills 119th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 161 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 161

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     February 25, 2025.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 20) providing for 
congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the 
rule submitted by the Department of Energy relating to ``Energy Conservation 
Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Consumer Gas-fired Instantaneous 
Water Heaters''. All points of order against consideration of the joint 
resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on 
any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) 
one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their respective 
designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 35) providing for congressional 
disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule 
submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to ``Waste Emissions 
Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating 
Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''. All points of order against 
consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the joint 
resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce 
or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 14) establishing the congressional budget 
for the United States Government for fiscal year 2025 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2026 through 2034. The first 
reading of the concurrent resolution shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the concurrent resolution are waived. General 
debate shall not exceed three hours, with two hours of general debate confined 
to the congressional budget equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on the Budget or their respective 
designees and one hour of general debate on the subject of economic goals and 
policies equally divided and controlled by Representative Schweikert of Arizona 
and Representative Beyer of Virginia or their respective designees. The 
amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution shall be considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of 
the Whole. The concurrent resolution, as amended, shall be considered as read. 
After general debate the Committee shall rise and report the concurrent 
resolution, as amended, to the House. The previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the concurrent resolution and amendments thereto to adoption 
without intervening motion except amendments offered by the chair of the 
Committee on the Budget pursuant to section 305(a)(5) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 to achieve mathematical consistency. The concurrent 
resolution shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question of its 
adoption.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.