[Congressional Bills 119th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 211 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 211

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        March 11, 2025.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 25) providing for 
congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the 
rule submitted by the Internal Revenue Service relating to ``Gross Proceeds 
Reporting by Brokers That Regularly Provide Services Effectuating Digital Asset 
Sales''. All points of order against consideration of the joint resolution are 
waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment 
thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Ways and Means or their respective designees; and (2) one 
motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 1156) to amend the CARES Act to extend the statute 
of limitations for fraud under certain unemployment programs, and for other 
purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and 
Means now printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as 
amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final 
passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Ways and Means or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 1968) making further continuing appropriations and 
other extensions for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2025, and for other 
purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The 
amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as 
amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or 
their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 4.  Each day for the remainder of the first session of the 119th 
Congress shall not constitute a calendar day for purposes of section 202 of the 
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622) with respect to a joint resolution 
terminating a national emergency declared by the President on February 1, 2025.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.